You're heading for the lighthouse and he wanted
you to hit it right on the button. He didn't want you
to be a mile off this way or that way. And he was just,
everything was the same way. I mean,
if you had a bomb wing and you're supposed to be able
to load the bombs and be ready to go in 30 minutes,
why, were you supposed to practice enough that
you'd make it in 30 minutes? And this was a... A
perfectionist. A perfectionist, right. That's
the word you think that would... Obviously,
that's right. And still he had the human touch that
people liked to work for
him.
And... And he drove fast cars. I mean, he... And one
of his hobbies was his turbocharged automobiles.
And he'd work on them himself. So
when I was down at Homestead, he called me up one day
and wanted me to go up to some outfit in West Palm
Beach to look at a supercharger that he had. Some
outfit was working up there, some machine shop.
And it was a machine shop
made up of retired people. They didn't hire
anything but retired people, machinists from
Detroit and what have you.
They were machinists that just did part time work,
but they were so good that The guy that worked in the
morning could continue the job of the guy in the
afternoon. And they made a real good supercharger
so I told him what they cost and what I thought of the
plant and he took it from there.
Good man to work for. Oh yeah, he's a real good man to
work for. How's his health right now? Oh I think
he's pretty good. How old is he? He's younger than I
am. I met him by LeMay. He's older than you are. Is
he? Yeah. He always told you older than everybody
else. Seventy-four? I think he's seventy. Yeah, I
think he's seventy-four now. That's what I told
him in February. I think that's how old he is.
It was right after your command with the 379th that
you were promoted to Brigadier General. Yeah,
well see, as a result of, I mean, actually what we
did in 379th is why he promoted me to become the Air
Division Commander at Homestead. Then I just took
over from previous commander who was transferred
out. So, at Homestead, how many wing commanders
did you have? Well, you had two wing commanders and
an air base group commander. Okay, so you had three
and then you had a brigadier general in charge of
those three who was in charge of the entire air
division. Yeah, then you had three colonels
commanding one air base group and two wing
commanders. 19th Bomb Wing, 379th Bomb Wing, and
the Air Base Group. In other words, so you went from
leading about 1,800 men to leading 6,500 men.
Yeah, probably 30, probably pretty close, about
5,000.
Now you remained a colonel from, I think, 1943 to
1957. Is that right? Were you getting frustrated?
Well, that's the reason I said I was going to go to my
master's degree. When I commanded the 315, way
back in 48, I was recommended for promotion at that
time. And I was recommended for promotion when I
commanded the security service. Well, I just
wasn't selected at the time.
So I figured that If the Air Force didn't want to
promote me, I just didn't want to be dead wood
around.
How many times can you be passed over? Well, you're
not passed over. Okay, well, what's the
difference here? I mean, a man who now is staying at
the same rank for 14 years, I mean, how do they, I
know that sometimes they ease people out of this,
or they force retirement, don't they? How does
this work? Well, see, if you, see I was promoted to
permanent colonel, and that automatically
grants you 30 years service. Oh, it does? Oh, I
didn't know that. Oh, I see. So if you are promoted
to lieutenant colonel, then that automatically
grants you 28 years service. I see. And then if you
don't make lieutenant colonel, then there's a
period, I think, 18 years or something of this
sort. And you have to do a lot of string pulling to
get to stay on active duty for 20 years in order to be
able to retire. And see, when I was selected for
permanent colonel in whatever it is, 46, 48, Well,
then that automatically guaranteed me until
1963. But you
could have retired as early as 1953 with no pay.
Yeah, yeah.
And then if you are selected for a permanent BG, a
permanent major channel, Why didn't you get to
stay on for 35 years service? And so that's the
reason that I had to retire in 1963. So I got
promoted to permanent colonel, but not to a
permanent BG. OK. Now let's go back to Homestead,
Florida. OK. For two years there, you were the
commander of the Air Division. How did this differ
from your command as a wing commander?
Well, it's more of an administrative job. More
coordination. A wing commander is more of a flying
job. You're in the day-to-day operations of
scheduling, watching airplanes,
briefing pilots, and things of this sort. Your Air
Division is a job of checking on each wing to be sure
that they're doing their job and checking on the
Air Base Group to be sure that they're supporting
the wings in the areas that they're supposed to.
And then your Air Division and the Bay Air Base
Group are more into the community functions. Your
flying wing commanders do very little of making
speeches to the Rotary Club and things of this
sort. Sure, and so now you got to use some of that
personnel development that you received at the
Air War College, going out and meeting the Chamber
of Commerce and things like that. Did you give a lot
of speeches during this time? Oh yeah, well you
made Well, not a lot. A lot of times you just go down
and have a cup of coffee with the mayor and have him
out or you invite a group of the top civilian
personnel, people, the president of the bank and
out for lunch and give them a tour of the base.
and tell them how much money we were spending in
their community. Oh, make them feel good. Tell
them how important the Air Force is to their
community. And this type of thing. And how did you
get along with the mayors, and how did you get along
with them? Oh, you get along with them normally
real good. You have no...
I don't know of any...
any problem I had with any mayor, including the
mayor of Misawa, Japan, and the governor of the
prefecture. It's the same type of community
relations type of thing.
When I was in, speaking of this community
relations stuff, I was in the United States Navy,
and I was just an enlisted man, but I often found
that there was a negative community feeling
toward the Navy men, the sailors in the particular
towns that I was at. I would imagine that in
Homestead some of your airmen felt the same way.
How did you cope with a problem like that? Well,
I don't
remember of any instances where you had any
problem. I think the only problem you have is where
your airmen start picking up VD at a certain
location and you put it off limits and then
everything gets in an uproar when you put some bar
off limits. And
that's where you run into,
I guess you do your best persuasive act to get the
mayor to clean up the place.
But I don't think we really had the same problems as
they had around Fort Benning at one time where we
had almost open warfare between the civilian and
the military.
I can't remember the town that was in Bob.
But I think if you visit these people or the base
commander visits these people once a week, once
every two weeks, and you keep everybody informed
as to what's going on. Normally your problems are
or lack of communications, like where they think
the military is excluding them and they're not a
part of the, because they're looking for the
dollars and the number of people that are spending
money downtown and who are renting their houses
and all this type of thing.
It really didn't
didn't come up. I don't think we had any problem at
all in Florida. In fact, I didn't ever have too much
of a problem anywhere with the civilian.
But as long as you keep them informed as to what's
going on and why you have to restrict sometimes all
your airmen and your officers to base and and
things of this sort except those that are married
or living off base. You normally have to keep them
informed of what's going on and they accept that
but it's only when you don't keep them informed as
to what's going on. At this time you must have had
some black airmen under your command and here you
are in a pretty much of a segregated state. Did you
have any race problems in Homestead, Florida? I
never had any race problems at any base I had.
That's good. Because I didn't create a problem. I
just think that the problems that are created by
your black personnel is
is one where you start talking about a problem. And
the only area that really came to my attention was
when I was stationed in Misawa some time later. But
there
you had lots of quarters and the,
an airfoil white guy was living there and colored
moving in next door. Well, if they wanted to move, I
said, well, you can move. You can move wherever you
want to. I mean, here's the other quarters. You
just select them. And if you want to pay for you and
you just want to move, well, just move. And I said,
it's all right with me. So I didn't restrict them
and say, you have to sit there and live right next
door to a colored person if they didn't want to live
there. as long as it didn't cost me anything, as
long as it didn't cost the government anything.
And the only other item is the colored airmen in
barracks would always, every time a white guy
would move out, the colored guy would move in. So
that you get all the colored and one in the
barracks, and that's a dangerous situation. So it
wasn't ever too much, these guys with all the
congregations in one barracks, I would just
disperse them. And
I treated all of them just exactly alike. I mean,
the crew chief, if he had the best flying record of
his airplane, he was the number one crew chief, and
he got promoted first. I think as long as you treat
them exactly like you treat everybody else, and
you brag on them like you brag on everybody else, I
don't think you have any problem. When I was
stationed up in Missoula, I had a colored pilot who
was my personal pilot. He was your personal pilot?
Yeah, I mean, who flew me back and forth to wherever
I had to go to a meeting. And he was good, so as far as I
was concerned, it didn't make any difference what
color he was, as long as he was good and I felt safe by
him. And when our daughters came back from Stevens
and they would land on top of Chicago, he'd go down
and pick them up. And they knew who he was and so we
had no problem. So he was top dog as far as everyone.
So as far as you, if you treat everybody the same,
you have no problem. It's where you start
not treating them different, not promoting them
the same, if they were just as good, why you have no
problem.
Did you have any, while you were the commander at
Homestead, did you, what kind of relations did you
have with other commands in the south? Did you try
to cooperate with other commanders and did you fly
missions with them or did you have any large scale
missions that you went out on? Well, the only
missions that you had were psych missions. As a
wing commander you were just as competitive with
the other wings as you are in a football game.
You have a, he had a, General May had an annual
bombing competition. Oh really? Your wing was,
you prepped that just like you did to peak your
football team. He had annual bombing from base,
from one SAC base against another SAC base or one
wing? One wing against another wing. Within your
base? No, no. No, it was SAC-wide. Oh, SAC-wide.
Yeah, so you sent, each wing was permitted to send
two crews. And you had a bombing competition,
navigation and bombing competition. And then you
just got eliminated on what your bombing score
was. At this time, late 1950s, 1957, 1958, How many
wings were there in SAC? Do you remember? Do you
have any idea? I have no idea. But you're... No, he
would have a commanders conference and he'd have
all his wing commanders and his division
commanders in and they'd meet at one of the bases
such as Plattsburgh up in New England and And you'd
play golf, get to know the,
play golf and have briefings as to what was going
on. And
get all those bank commanders together and get
them fighting each other about who was best. And I
mean, that's the way to get things going, you know,
is competition. They loved to put people in
situations where they were competing. Oh, yeah.
Competing, oh yeah. Who's the best?
But... No, in fact, you had very good relations
with the other wing commanders, mostly, and
division commanders. Most of it was a competitive
situation.
And who was best and... He
kept me pretty well informed as to what the
score was. Why did he get rid of you? Why did Curtis
LeMay send you to Japan? Well, some stupid guy,
some stupid brigadier general over in Japan had a
heart attack.
And I was picked up and moved to Japan overnight
just about. Really? Yeah. Well he was the chief of
the Air Force section, MAG, who was really an aide
to the chief of staff of the Air Defense Force of
Japan, Japan Air Force. And he had a heart attack
and they had to pick a general officer right quick
and and said, went over, and I got the job.
I don't know why. You just get a telegram saying,
get prepared. So basically then, you were a senior
advisor to the chief of staff, the Air Force chief
of staff in Japan. You were basically his deputy
then? Or exactly what were your functions? What
does it mean to be an advisor? You were second in
command then? No, what you were doing, you were,
see we provided the Japanese with the air defense
command equipment and we provided them with the
aircraft that they were flying. Of course by this
time Japan had military again. They were an
independent nation again, right. And they also
had the F-86s. And your military assistance group
followed them almost just like if you were a
commander. How many airplanes were out of
commission because of parts and And see, we were
providing them with parts to maintain their
aircraft. And
all their bases, you watched their operational
status just like you would if you were commanding
them, except you had no authority to tell them what
to do. And you played golf with them. And you got to
know General Ginder, who was on the raid on Pearl
Harbor. Oh really? No kidding? Oh yeah. How was he?
Well, he and I never did get along very good. I was
from SAC.
Well, it was really a fairly interesting job. It's
more of an attache type of job. That's what it
sounds like, personal relations. Personal
relations. And of course, I was from SAC, so the
Japanese always thought that I must be a ball of
fire to be selected from SAC to come over and direct
them and chief them. So I got along with them real
good. They
were doing a number of things that
I changed when I went over there. Well, of course,
the way the Air Force runs it, a generator is not
economically repaired because of our labor
costs. I mean, we're paying somebody $8 an hour to
repair an electrical generator. we don't repair
it, it's cheaper to buy a new one. Well, we treated
the Japanese exactly the same way, except the
Japanese labor was dollar an hour. So I said, look,
I said, General Sanagi, I said, it looks like to me,
I'd gone around their bases and located about a
million dollars worth of electrical
instruments, airplane instruments,
generators, starters. And I said, look, why don't
we just provide you with bits and pieces and you
repair them? Oh, he didn't want to do that because
he was getting them for free. But anyway, I
insisted on this. And I sent it back to Washington
as a recommendation. And we set up an overhaul
depot over in Japan to overhaul all these airplane
instruments and things of this sort. And we just
found some bits and pieces. So we saved ourselves a
lot of money, but the Japanese didn't like it
because it's costing them money to set it up. But
the only way they can become self-sufficient is to
is to do it themselves and also within their labor
tolerances. I mean, they could very easily
economically repair these. But this job is mostly
a type of job of helping them get airplanes from off
of, get the spare parts from the United States so
that we can get the airplanes flying. And of course
I worked on that pretty hard.
And then, well I didn't particularly like that
type of game, you had no authority. I wasn't about a
cup of tea, so I worked on a General Burns, who at the
time was 5th Air Force Commander, to move out of
there. And there was a schedule to The Navy
commanded the MAG over there, Navy Rear
Admiral, and the Air Force had selected a major
general to come over to command it, to take his
place, so that put two generals in the MAG, so I got
out, and I got back to Misawa.
Is it, is this a generalization that has some truth
that it was considered back in the 1950s that SAC
officers, officers in the Air Force who were in SAC
were sort of the cream of the crop? Oh I don't know.
Well I would say SAC certainly got almost anything
they asked for.
I don't know that, I can't say that they got the
cream of the crop, but LeMay carried a lot of weight
and he had a big mission. I mean he really had a big
mission of keeping the peace and I think that he did
a good job. I thought everybody was scared of him.
Including the Russians. Yeah, including the
Russians.
And I think since then, I think since he left
command there, I think SAC has really gone down in
its capability of keeping the peace, you might
say.
Let's quit for today. Okay. We've got 15 minutes
before.